## Data Rangers
### Crime in Nebraska Series
### ISQA-8086
Shivani Singh Parihar  
Chaitra Venkatesan  
William Wetzel

#### Crime in Nebraska Summary

Our 3 member team used open source data analysis tools to answer self-developed research questions:

1. How does the population level of a county impact the type of crimes committed?
2. How do police staffing levels impact overall crime rates?
3. How do the types and amounts of crime committed change over the course of a year?

Data was primarily collected from the [Nebraska Crime Commission](https://ncc.nebraska.gov/), with some additional publically available data.
 
#### Project License
----Standard [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) Applies to all code, research, works, and all other items owned by the Data Rangers research team in this Repository----

#### Contents
Contained in this repository are conclusions relating to the data analysis of Nebraska crime and law enforcement data done over the course of a semester by the Data Rangers research team. For a full backround on the origination of the data, research methodology, and findings, please see the full **_written summary_**.  All code used in this project can be found within the data rangers repository, with key pieces in this directory.

1. **_Knitted Deliverable_**  
  The knitted HTML file is the main deliverable for our project. It contains data cleaning documentation, visualizations, and conclusions from our research. It was generated by combining the analysis of all 3 team members, with each summarizing their findings for the given research question.


  To run the data cleaning python code present in the knitted HTML document, you will need to install and configure [PRAW](https://www.r-bloggers.com/calling-python-from-r-with-rpython/) - or we recommend the [Anaconda Distribution](https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/) of python to ensure all required dependencies are met to run the included python code. 

2. **_Audience Persona_**  
  The audience persona was developed to better focus our research and presentation. When unsure of what is important to include, we reference our persona. It was revised after being peer reviewed by peers in our class.

3. **_Full Written Summary_**  
  The written summary contains detailed information about each deliverable, as well as references, and arguments for our findings.
  
4. **_Presentation Materials_**  
  Presentation materials were utilized on 12-6-17 when giving in person presentations.
  
5. **_Contributorship_**  
  Lists the portions of the project undertaken by each team member.